docs: vpn: Add documentation for evaluation of vpn protocols (#3267)
freifunk-gluon/gluon: docs/features/vpn.rst

|                                       |      |          | partial [3]_   |                            |                        |                  |                |                          |
+---------------------------------------+------+----------+----------------+----------------------------+------------------------+------------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| Tunneldigger (L2TP - deprecated) [6]_ | yes  | no [4]_  | no             | no                         | yes                    | low (82)         |                | no                       |
+---------------------------------------+------+----------+----------------+----------------------------+------------------------+------------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| WireGuard + VXLAN                     | yes  | yes      | yes            | yes                        | yes                    | high (162)       | yes [5]_       | yes                      |
+---------------------------------------+------+----------+----------------+----------------------------+------------------------+------------------+----------------+--------------------------+

> 

Reviewer: Are all of these linebreaks necessary for the formatting to work? If not, please reduce to one or two linebreaks.

.. [1] No encryption allows internet providers to read and alter mesh traffic.
.. [2] The Gateway can ignore authentication for the initial connection request, via ``"on verify 'true'"``. However, a node→gateway handshake authentication with valid fastd keys in the site.conf is still required.

> .. [3] Initial connection request can be authenticated, however payload data is not authenticated afterward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. [3] Initial connection request can be authenticated, however, payload data is not authenticated afterward.
```

Author: Thank you! :)

the forwarding rules are only installed if a client is connected, so
unnecessary traffic in the kernel is avoided. The source can be found
`here <https://github.com/freifunkh/wireguard-vxlan-glue/>`__.

Protocol evaluation table
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To compare and evaluate which VPN method of the supported and former supported suits best for your needs, the following table should help (don't forget to scroll to the right):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a comprehensive comparison and evaluation of the supported and formerly supported VPN methods that best suit your needs, refer to the following table (Be sure to scroll to the right):
```

+-------------------------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+----------------+----------------+-----------------------------+
| Gluon VPN method                    | IPv4                       | IPv6        | Authentication    | Encryption          | Kernelspace forwarding    | MTU overhead   | Multithreading | Single interface for all    |

> |                                     |                            |             |                   | [no -> faster] [1]_ | [yes -> faster]           | (bytes @v4)    |                | peers                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                     |                            |             |                   | (no→faster,insecure [1]_)  | (yes→faster)           | (bytes @v4)    |                | peers                       |
```

| fastd, encrypted                    | yes                        | yes         | optional [2]_     | yes                 | no                        | low (98)       | no             | optional                    |
+-------------------------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+----------------+----------------+-----------------------------+
| fastd, null                         | yes                        | yes         | optional [2]_,    | no                  | no                        | low (98)       | no             | optional                    |
|                                     |                            |             | partial [3]_      |                     |                           |                |                |                             |
+-------------------------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+----------------+----------------+-----------------------------+

> | fastd, ``null@l2tp``, offloaded     | yes                        | yes         | optional [2]_,    | no                  | yes                       | low (82)       |                | optional                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| fastd, ``null@l2tp``, w/ offloading | yes                        | yes         | optional [2]_,    | no                  | yes                       | low (82)       |                | optional                    |
```

|                                     |                            |             | partial [3]_      |                     |                           |                |                |                             |
+-------------------------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+----------------+----------------+-----------------------------+

> | fastd, ``null@l2tp``, not offloaded | yes                        | yes         | optional [2]_,    | no                  | no                        | low (82)       | no             | optional                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| fastd, ``null@l2tp``, no offloading | yes                        | yes         | optional [2]_,    | no                  | no                        | low (82)       | no             | optional                    |
```

Below you are using "offloading", not "offloaded".

+-------------------------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+----------------+----------------+-----------------------------+
| Tunneldigger (L2TP)                 | yes                        | no [4]_     | no                | no                  | yes                       | low (82)       |                | no                          |
+-------------------------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+----------------+----------------+-----------------------------+
| WireGuard + VXLAN                   | yes                        | yes         | yes               | yes                 | yes                       | high (162)     | yes [5]_       | yes                         |
+-------------------------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+----------------+----------------+-----------------------------+

> .. [1] But more insecure as internet providers can read and alter mesh traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. [1] No encryption allows internet providers to read and alter mesh traffic.
```

> .. [2] Gateway side can ignore authentication for the initial connection request, via ``"on verify 'true'"``, however node->gateway handshake authentication with valid fastd keys in the site.conf is still required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. [2] The Gateway can ignore authentication for the initial connection request, via ``"on verify 'true'"``. However, a node→gateway handshake authentication with valid fastd keys in the site.conf is still required.
```

> .. [3] Initial connection request can be authenticated, however payload data is not authenticated afterwards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. [3] Initial connection request can be authenticated, however, payload data is not authenticated afterward.
```
